[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Now we're ready to
start adding in the Socket.IO pieces.
So on the server, we're going to create
the Socket.IO object that's gonna allow us
to manage incoming web socket connections.
So we're gonna create this
IO object by requiring
a Socket.IO,
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
then to that we're gonna pass in
the HTTP server that we just created.
And that's gonna allow Socket.IO serve
up our, the client side JavaScript
that will be using here in a second
in addition to a few other bits.
And I, next with that IO object
we're going to be listening for
a connection event.
So whenever a new web socket
connects this function is going to
be called with that socket.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So, for
now I'll just console that log,
>> Kevin Whinnery: So I can connect it.
And we'll start doing some more
interesting stuff with that socket here in
a minute.
So that is the server side component.
Now on the client side because though
one of the things Socket.IO provides
us is like a dynamic script tag.
So this route that I'm about
to type in the source here
is actually gonna be
generated by Socket.IO.
Cuz this isn't a route that we created, so
it's just gonna be socket.io/socket.io.js.
That's gonna load up
a Socket.IO JavaScript object for
us to start working with
on the client side.
And then in my script tag here, this
is where we'll write all the logic for
our chat application.
I'm just gonna create a new instance of
Socket.IO here on the client as well.
We'll just call that socket and
then we'll use the Windows
scoped.IO object to initialize
it which is what we get when
we include that script tag.
So I'll save that up, and
I'll kill my server and
I'll actually run
the script with nodemon so
we don't have to restart it every time.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
if we refresh the page, go back out here,
we should have our message,
that the socket was connected.
So now we have a connection
between the client and the server.
And now we can start doing something
some interesting stuff with it.
So,
>> Kevin Whinnery: The first
bit that I think we'll do,
we'll start off on the client side.
We can use the client side
socket connection to emit
events that will be
received on the server.
So I'm gonna say socket.emit('message').
And in addition at Socket.IO,
maybe I'll just for
good measure, grab a version of jQuery to
help me grab some stuff out of the dom.
So for that message, I'm gonna
actually grab the current value of
the,
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah,
the current value of
the of the form field.
So I'm going to emit a message and then,
so the message is kind of the event
that other sockets can listen for
and the server can listen for.
And the second argument is essentially
the data value that you wanna send along
with it.
So for the input of the chat,
>> Kevin Whinnery: Object,
I'm just gonna grab
the current value of that.
And that's gonna be enough logic
to emit the current value of that.
We also wanna wrap that
in an event handler.
So we have that send button, so
on a click.
>> Kevin Whinnery: That's
when we want to grab
the current value of that.
And we'll emit that value
back to the server.
And then we'll also reset the value of
like our local chat box back to no.
So that'll be kind of the send
part of the equation here, and
then back on the server to actually
listen for that incoming event.
We're gonna listen for
an event on that socket object that we
get when somebody connects to the server.
So when that socket
receives a message event,
>> Kevin Whinnery: We are going to execute
this logic on the server and for now
we'll just acknowledge that we got it by
writing that out to the console.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
again if everything went according
to plan, we'll send some messages.
And hopefully out here, no!
Missing handler console is not a function.
Oops yeah, console.log that
would be a more effective thing
to try.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
we'll send that.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And then here we go,
we have some messages being emitted in
real time from the client to the server.
Now we've implemented one half of this but
what we haven't done is send this
out to any other connected client.
So, what we can do when we want to send
a message to every other socket that's
currently connected is use the IO object.
This guy that we created here and
use a method called emit to
fire off a message on that object that
will be received by every client so.
It's very similar actually to what we did
on the client side emitting that event.
So we're going to emit,
a message event, and
then we'll pass in,
I will just relay that message
that we just got.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right so,
now after we emit that to every
connected socket up here on the client,
we're gonna have another event
handler here so on that message
event.
>> Kevin Whinnery: This
is going to be fired every time a message
event is emitted from the server.
And what we wanna do is on that
unordered list that we had,
just append a list item to it.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
for that, what do we call that messages.
We'll actually start by creating an li,
>> Kevin Whinnery: Oops li=.
Create li item and
we'll set the text of that to be the
message that we got back from the server.
And then we will append that list item to
the messages.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So now what should be
happening is we'll emit a message from the
client, it will be received on the server,
and then the server will emit that message
back to every other connected client.
So let's reload and
see if that is indeed what we
experience.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
looks like we have a very crappy real time
chat application running in the browser.
And now one other tool that is
a constant companion for me, and for
many other developers that work
with web hooks or have to expose
their local development machines to the
Internet is a little tool called ngrok.
And ngrok basically
allows my laptop to get
a a publicly addressable
URL on the Internet.
So this'll allow all of you to
test my application along with me.
So this tool I'll call ngrok http and
we'll want to expose port 3,000.
And then I'll reserve the subdomain
of frontendmasters.
So now,
if you go to frontendmasters.ngrok.io,
>> Kevin Whinnery: We should see that
interface that we just saw.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
I'll start sending some messages.
And hopefully some of you out there will
start sending some messages
back to us as well.
Try to keep it PG13,
this is a family show.
All right, so
we got some folks coming in here.
So there we have, again,
the magic of Socket.IO for all to see.
Certainly that I'm sure
folks have seen before.
But in just a tiny amount of code,
a few lines in the client.
A few lines on the server, we are able
to create this real time interface for
our application.